ug-students-bounces@inf.ed.ac.uk
---------------
[ug-students] UCU Action Feb, March 2020
---------------
Dear All

The UCU is continuing to take strike action on the following dates:

*	Week 1: Monday 24 – Thursday 27 February (four days)
*	Week 2: Monday 2 – Friday 6 March (five days)
*	Week 3: Monday 9 – Friday 13 March (five days)

This means that some of your lectures may be disrupted this week.  As staff are not required to inform us in advance whether they will strike or not and because there may be picket lines that non-striking staff may be unwilling to cross, we cannot accurately predict the extent of the disruption to teaching and learning.  This email is intended to give as clear instruction as we can in these circumstances:

·       You should continue to follow the published timetable for your courses.

·       If a scheduled event (lecture, tutorial, lab, …) does not take place, take the usual action of informing the ITO using the email address inf-sst@inf.ed.ac.uk <mailto:inf-sst@inf.ed.ac.uk> . It will help us manage these emails if they all have a similar title.  Please use this if you can: “Event Missed, Course, Date, Time” e.g. if the SAPM lecture was missed on Monday 5th March you would send an email to the ITO with title:  “Lecture Missed, SAPM, 5/3/18, 17:00” - there is no need to include anything else unless you want to provide additional information.

·       We will use this information, together with information from other sources to build a record of missed teaching and learning.

·       This information will be used to inform a review of examination papers that will take place after the action is concluded to ensure the examinations you will sit in April and May will examine the material taught on the course.

We realize that this situation is far from ideal but uncertainty is an important element in any UCU action.  As the action unfolds we will attempt to keep all students updated on the situation via email.  In particular we are aware that this action may be having an impact on your ability to complete and submit coursework.

The University information is here:

https://www.ed.ac.uk/student-administration/heaction/ 

Best,

Neil

Head of Student Servies
