students-bounces@inf.ed.ac.uk
---------------
[Students] TODAY: Talks 19th and 23rd March Lecturer/Senior Lecturer/Reader in Systems for Hardware Security
---------------
The remainder of the talks for Lecturer/Senior Lecturer/Reader in Systems for Hardware Security will take place today. 

 

We recommend that people join remotely via the Blackboard Collaborate room. You will be able to join this session from anywhere so long as you have good Internet connection, use a Chrome browser and using the following link: https://eu.bbcollab.com/guest/a205816381d8404d9448090252f2d236 <https://eu.bbcollab.com/guest/a205816381d8404d9448090252f2d236> 

 

Feedback on the research talks can be sent by email to Jane Hillston (Jane.Hillston@ed.ac.uk <mailto:Jane.Hillston@ed.ac.uk> ) or Mahesh Marina (Mahesh@ed.ac.uk <mailto:Mahesh@ed.ac.uk> ). 

Feedback on the teaching talks can be sent by email to Tariq Elahi (t.elahi@ed.ac.uk <mailto:t.elahi@ed.ac.uk> ) 

 

If anyone wishes to talk with the candidates please contact their hosts who will be arranging an online schedule for them. 

 

If anyone has any questions please just let me know and I will be more than happy to help. 

 

Best wishes, 

Sam 

 

------------

 

Monday 23rd March

Research talks

 

10.45am: Xiaoxuan ‘Chris’ Lu (host Rik Sarkar)

 

Biography:

(Chris) Xiaoxuan Lu is a currently a lecturer (assistant professor) at the University of Liverpool. He received his M.Eng degree in Electrical and Electronic Engineering from Nanyang Technological University and his Ph.D. degree in Computer Science from Oxford University. Xiaoxuan's research interests span the broad spectrum of cyber-physical systems, including mobile computing, autonomous systems, human-machine interaction and security/privacy issues of IoT. The goal of his research is to bring the strong notion of trust and intelligence to the system connecting cyber-physical worlds. He has been awarded Google-DeepMind PhD Scholarship, Outstanding Chinese PhD Students Abroad, Oxford-Keble Association Study Awards, Master of Engineering Award at Nanyang Technology Awards and Best Paper Runner-up at IEEE DCOSS etc.

 

Publications:

https://christopherlu.github.io/publications/ 

 

Research talk: 

Making Cyber-Physical Systems Autonomous and Trustworthy

 

Recent decades have witnessed a phenomenal level of investment in Cyber-Physical Systems (CPS) ranging from smart buildings to AR/VR devices. These systems drastically expand the reach of digital world to the physical world, with the promise to drive significant innovation in a variety of public and private sectors. Despite their great promise, the operation of today's CPS constantly requires human intervention and often falls short when facing challenging conditions. Meanwhile, the increasingly complex cyber-physical interaction on emerging devices also gives rise to new attack surfaces that are difficult to assess. In this talk, I will first describe how to bootstrap a robust human identification system in the wild with a generic cross-modal inference

 

11.30am: Sam Ainsworth (host Murray Cole)

 

Biography:

Sam is a Research Associate in the Computer Architecture Group at the University of Cambridge, working with Timothy Jones. His research primarily involves computer architecture, compiler and runtime techniques to improve performance, reliability and security, along with new approaches for exploiting architectural parallelism. He has published in the major architecture, reliability, compiler and security venues (ASPLOS, S&P, MICRO, DSN, CGO, ICS, TOCS). Before his postdoc, he completed his undergraduate degree in 2014 and his PhD in 2018, both at Churchill College, Cambridge.

 

Publications:

https://www.cl.cam.ac.uk/~sa614/#publications

 

Research talk: 

High-performance, Reliable and Secure Computing Across the Hardware-Software Stack

 

With traditional transistor scaling struggling to maintain progress, clever techniques to improve the performance, reliability and security properties that systems need, at costs that are tolerable in real environments, become ever more necessary. This talk will introduce a brief overview of my techniques from across the full gamut of the hardware-software stack to achieve these properties, ranging from automatic prefetching in the compiler for big-data workloads, fault-tolerant redundant architectures that are an order of magnitude more efficient than the state-of-the-art, and highly parallel security-focused architectures, designed to provide complex programmable analysis at low overheads. Finally, we will take an in-depth look at MarkUs, a new allocator designed to provide low-cost protection against use-after-free attacks, one of the most prolific bugs in modern applications.

 

12.15pm: Benjamin Ujcich (host Michio Honda)

 

Biography:

Benjamin E. Ujcich is a Ph.D. candidate at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, where he is co-advised by Professors Adam Bates and William H. Sanders in the study of secure computer systems and networks. Ben has conducted research on topics in network security, network dependability, and legal and regulatory influence on systems design. His dissertation is in the area of securing software-defined networks and network operating systems using data provenance and program analysis techniques. He was the recipient of the University of Illinois' Grainger College of Engineering Carver Fellowship in 2014. He received his B.S. in Computer Engineering in 2014 from Clemson University, his M.S. in Electrical and Computer Engineering in 2016 from the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, and will earn his Ph.D. in Electrical and Computer Engineering in the spring of 2020 from the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. Ben has participated in graduate research internships at MIT Lincoln Laboratory.

 

Publications:

http://ujcich2.web.engr.illinois.edu/cv.php

 

Research talk: 

Securing Software-Defined Networking and Network Operating Systems

 

Software-defined networking (SDN) has seen rapid growth because of its unparalleled flexibility in network configuration. This flexibility results from programmable control planes in which developers can write network apps and operators can execute them. Network operating systems oversee shared control plane resources. Although SDN has been touted as a solution to long-standing challenges of consistent network security policy enforcement, SDN is vulnerable to new attack vectors that undermine such policies. In this talk, I will detail my efforts to explore attack vectors that impact the SDN control plane and network operating system security. These efforts have led to the design and implementation of information flow control in the SDN control plane, the systematic discovery of 15 novel control plane vulnerabilities in popular network operating systems used by telecommunications and cloud providers, and the use of data provenance and program analysis techniques to analyze and record the SDN control plane's control and data dependencies. Using these approaches, I will demonstrate that we can prevent cross-app and cross-plane attack classes during design time and during execution. By addressing key security concerns about SDN, this work builds a solid foundation for better and more secure network operating system design.

 

1.00pm: Feedback session

 

Teaching talks in G.03

The presentation should be in the form of a mock tutorial containing an introductory 15 minutes talk to explain remote attestation: how to bootstrap trust in a remote commodity machine using a small trusted hardware component? The presentation will be attended by students (possibly of different levels) and staff, and there will be five minutes afterwards to ask questions about the presentation and about the candidates approach to teaching.

 

2.15pm: Benjamin Ujcich

 

2.45pm: Sam Ainsworth

 

3.15pm: Xiaoxuan ‘Chris’ Lu

 

3.45pm: Feedback Session

 

 

------

Samantha Inch

Staffing Support Manager

HR Office

Room 5.39

University of Edinburgh, Informatics Forum

10 Crichton St | Edinburgh | EH8 9AB

Tel:  +44 131 650 9006

 

The University of Edinburgh is a charitable body, registered in Scotland, with registration number SC005336.

 
